King into paesan in various ways but
yeah that's it types is a big one that's
the interesting question what else's
okay now this is a distinctly unsexy
topic so something I should mention
which is interface as an abstract class
so the last several lectures we've seen
out implements and extends can allow us
to do interface inheritance and
implementation inheritance and as a
reminder interface inheritance is what
you can do and implementation
inheritance is how you do it now it
turns out that in the modern era
interfaces which originally were for
interface inheritance only and the
modern era they can have both abstract
methods that is just things that are
semicolons off in default methods which
actually do something right they have a
how now I don't think I actually said
this on a slide I've definitely said it
out loud but in an interface every
method has to be public so anytime I put
public here it was redundant and we saw
with intelligent yells at us and said we
don't have to and another thing is that
unless you use the keyword default then
the method is so-called abstract so it
has a semicolon it's abstract meaning it
doesn't actually do anything it's just a
thing you must be able to do okay
so there's actually one last thing I
want to say about interfaces we're
talking about their cousins which is
that you can also actually put variables
inside of an interface and in that case
they'll be public static final so that
means it's public and it's static you
know what those mean and final just
means you can never change the value so
you can use it for constants like say
gravity and it turns out by the way that
classes can implement multiple
interfaces so I can implement universe
and illusion and make an illusory
universe website as to do all the things
that universes and illusions can do
maybe get some default method so as we
know interfaces you can't instantiate
them they can either give you abstract
methods or concrete methods these are
default methods you can get public
static final variables and we can only
have public methods and they have to end
yeah now there's actually a closely
related idea known as an abstract class
we won't really use them much in this
course however you may occasionally see
them in the Java library so I want to
let you know what they are so abstract
classes are kind of
in the middle between interface and
class so they cannot be instantiated you
can't say new list
likewise in Java they have an example in
their tutorial called a graphic object
you can't make a new graphic object now
abstract classes while they can't be
instantiated they do they can't do some
things that interfaces cannot do so just
like interfaces they can provide either
abstract or concrete methods so they can
give you semicolon doc methods or actual
methods but the semantics are a little
different so it's just like kind of
keyword glow thing with the language got
a little more complicated than it should
but in abstract classes by default any
method you specify as concrete and
anything that you want to say is
abstract you have to use the abstract
keywords sorry that's just the way it is
and so these it's just the opposite of
the default choice in an abstract
classes concrete you can also provide
any kind of variables in any kind of
method so I can have for example public
int X Y and that means every graphic
object is going to get an X and a Y that
is public yes and same thing with
methods you can provide any kind you
want you can have even private methods
to get inherited okay and just like we
saw before anytime you have an abstract
method if you have a concrete class if
it doesn't actually override any
something that's abstract it yells at
you so for example if graphic object
provides a draw and a resize method then
the circle class absolutely must
implement draw and resize it doesn't
need to implement move - why does it
need to implement that because it's
already an implementation good it'll
inherit that okay somebody is this I
don't know how visible it is oh it is
it's even more visible there than on the
screen so this lighter blue will
indicate an abstract class and a
concrete class you can actually level
this you can actually have a hierarchy
with an interface up top an abstract
class and a concrete class
and so I've just thrown this at you here
because probably hearing me talk about
this might be a little boring so what
you think about it in process what I've
said recently so in this case I have a
paper shredder interface a deluxe model
abstract class and a specific concrete
class not shown and the question is by
the time we climbed down the inheritance
hierarchy
how many methods are left for DCX 9000
copier I made up how many does it have
alright I'll take back over the room
there's some dissent okay let's talk
about this interface
how many abstract methods does it
provide to how do you know they're
abstract it doesn't say I'm drank that's
what happens with interfaces if you
don't say ok good so now we get to
deluxe model okay of these methods how
many abstract methods does it define one
this one connects to Wi-Fi okay so at
this point you would say there's three
abstract methods however how many
methods does this actually implement
concretely one Oh actually to count and
shred all shred all it was inherited
from this one so basically this provided
two abstract methods this implemented
one but it added one again so the
ultimate answer is two there's two more
that need to be done those are connect
to Wi-Fi and shred okay yeah here why
don't have to say public abstract shred
you don't have to explicitly say it
because it's inherited from the center
face if you in this class do not have to
implement it an abstract class does not
have to implement interface methods you
don't even have to list it and there's a
chance I'm wrong but I'm pretty sure I'm
right okay now we could try it but I'm
afraid to open it yes public so in this
class I do public abstract void shred
all shred is a good question so if I
actually do public abstract void shred
like I just repeat this again that's a
great question I would have no semantic
impact and I'm not sure what it'll do
I would I would open it in intelligent
but I don't have the files ready I don't
want to type all this stuff so I'll
table the question but it's interesting
thing to ponder what happens if you
actually put this again an abstract
class ultimately though there's two
things that are left for you to do you
need to write connect to Wi-Fi and you
need to write shred shred all is already
done so to summarize this that's as much
as I'm really going to say about them
all give a little more but for
interfaces the main goal is for
interface
hairatan and you could do a little bit
of implementation inheritance and
classes can implement multiple interface
with abstract classes basically they can
do anything an interface can do but they
have a little more capability like they
can provide non-public methods for
example subclasses of course also can
only extend one abstract class because
there's a rule in Java so you can only
extend one class and in my opinion
whatever you're not really sure you
should use an interface abstract classes
come up sometimes but I basically I feel
like the more complicated the thing it
is that you use in a language the more
likely you're going to cause yourself
trouble so you should restrict choices
from yourself when you can and Oracle
has a whole tutorial and when to use
each this is not a software engineering
class we won't really see it in a lot of
detail but I do want to show you a
little bit of what the why Java uses on
scratch classes so this is how lists and
Java work that's not totally but this is
mostly how it goes so there's a list
interface and there's an abstract list
abstract class good name and then there
are two specific implementations that
extend this class what does abstract
list do well it provides for example an
add methods that adds something to the
end of the list how does it do that it
uses the add method and add something to
the end of the list so it uses its own
size method and it uses the add method
that's going to be implemented by DS so
a ray list and linked list they're less
Caesar this is a method that's still
abstract by the time we get to the
bottom there each of these classes has
to be able to implement something for
adding to any position in the list but
if you don't want to implement the add
to the end of the list method that's
what ADD does okay now one question you
might ask yourself is why isn't this
just a default method and list and I
think the reason is that the interfaces
didn't have default methods until two
years ago so that's probably why okay an
abstract list was public and we can't
just throw it away
so that's an example of something
abstract lists we're good for now it's
actually even a little more messy this
is more of what the real list hierarchy
looks like in reality linked lists
extends abstract sequential lists and
that actually extends that exact list
which extends abstract collection which
in turn influenced and collection okay
and if you want you can browse the
source code we won't really care about
this but actually I lied this is the
real true hierarchy
links list that is fun to try and lay
out yesterday by the way it's just real
weird like abstract collection that
implements list but list also extends
collection and abstract collection
extends collection and you know if
you're excited about these things you
can read about them later okay but I
just wanted to let you know basically
abstract classes work because you're
likely to see them when you look at
documentation but you probably won't
need to write me abstract classes
yourself